---
title: rpk group
rpk_version: v23.2.1
---

Describe, list, and delete consumer groups and manage their offsets.

Consumer groups allow you to horizontally scale consuming from topics. A
non-group consumer consumes all records from all partitions you assign it. In
contrast, consumer groups allow many consumers to coordinate and divide work.
If you have two members in a group consuming topics A and B, each with three
partitions, then both members consume three partitions. If you add another
member to the group, then each of the three members will consume two
partitions. This allows you to horizontally scale consuming of topics.

The unit of scaling is a single partition. If you add more consumers to a group
than there are are total partitions to consume, then some consumers will be
idle. More commonly, you have many more partitions than consumer group members
and each member consumes a chunk of available partitions. One scenario where
you may want more members than partitions is if you want active standby's to
take over load immediately if any consuming member dies.

How group members divide work is entirely client driven (the "partition
assignment strategy" or "balancer" depending on the client). Brokers know
nothing about how consumers are assigning partitions. A broker's role in group
consuming is to choose which member is the leader of a group, forward that
member's assignment to every other member, and ensure all members are alive
through heartbeats.

Consumers periodically commit their progress when consuming partitions. Through
these commits, you can monitor just how far behind a consumer is from the
latest messages in a partition. This is called "lag". Large lag implies that
the client is having problems, which could be from the server being too slow,
or the client being oversubscribed in the number of partitions it is consuming,
or the server being in a bad state that requires restarting or removing from
the server pool, and so on.

You can manually manage offsets for a group, which allows you to rewind or
forward commits. If you notice that a recent deploy of your consumers had a
bug, you may want to stop all members, rewind the commits to before the latest
deploy, and restart the members with a patch.

This command allows you to list all groups, describe a group (to view the
members and their lag), and manage offsets.

## Usage

```bash
rpk group [flags]
  rpk group [command]
```

## Aliases

```bash
group, g
```

## Flags

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <strong>Value</strong>
      </td>
      <td>
        <strong>Type</strong>
      </td>
      <td>
        <strong>Description</strong>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>-h, --help</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>Help for group.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--config</td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>
        Redpanda or rpk config file; default search paths are
        ~/.config/rpk/rpk.yaml, $PWD, and /etc/redpanda/`redpanda.yaml`.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>-X, --config-opt</td>
      <td>stringArray</td>
      <td>
        Override rpk configuration settings; '-X help' for detail or '-X list'
        for terser detail.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--profile</td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>rpk profile to use.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>-v, --verbose</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>Enable verbose logging.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
